Yes, she's coming.
Thank you.
We're thinking of planning.
keeping those what you guys want we'll take a quick we'll talk about this is really good.
conversation talk through. probably so we'll talk to you surely.
Yes, please.
I'm going to make it three.
Can you share with Paul just the name name and his...
But you get his work. Yeah. They're more like a... They are more centered, recovery-oriented system of care. Like they do like two... Well, we do referrals to them. I know that the courts, you know, they have peer support specialists. They have all things, all sorts of things around recovery.
But they also do prevention as well. Look, we still tell her story, right? Just trying to, you know, make sure we get it right. Yeah, but doctor, she is the...
Yeah. That's right.
I'm Valerie. I'm Tommy. I am the program administrator for the recovery of the state.
I was also the project of a planning grant, the very first grant we received on HRSA, I believe it was, I always have to mention her name, I mention her every now and then. She worked for UNCP, and she just wanted to help us write the grant.
I had sent out a email to everybody at UNCP that I could think of, and she responded. She was like, you know, I want to help with this. This sounds like something good. And so she wrote the planning grant, and we got started working on it. She basically told us what to do. A strategic plan. We had to do an assessment. So, you know, we did all of that, and then we applied for the implementation. And so, I mean, it has just grown tremendously.
Since then, we started with maybe about four, maybe about four, it was UNCP, Robinson Health, DFS, a little part, but it was just. few of us. I mean, just like a handful to be a part of that consortium because we're only four, to name on to get the grant. And so we were like, okay, let's move forward. And then you think now we have well over 70 plus agencies nameed from 2019 to now. That's how much it's been. It's been.
a lot, but it's been great for them. At the same time that we're getting the transition, we had.
They had a coalition, everybody had a coalition, and the opposition really didn't want to do that. They saw it as an opportunity to watch, because they saw she was going to be doing some work. Well, they basically said in the beginning, will this replace, you know, the community coalition, you know what I'm saying? We still wanted them to be apart, and they were for a long time.
You know, they were apart. They were still nameed on, but they wanted us to take the lead. The substance use portion of it, they were used to doing things around diabetes and those type things. This whole substance use thing for them was like, whoa. We were pushing, you know, and making sure that it stayed viable.
Data is major. True. I know y'all. Jordan Due and a social researcher for SPARC and for, basically that means I do the data work, pretty charged, and I have been doing this work.
Yeah.
I felt like for me it was a very healthy making bowling. I am up today at NBC in April and I've hired various next to me.
The left, positive, the cash, them being them, because they didn't really.
And you're talking about the lead commissioner, specifically about the open work. Got it. That, that. With the consortium. Where they're going to stay home, they come to value the consortium.
Yeah, their has been a, yeah, transition in that consortium that meets all for information and also to just like have thoughts.
But stakeholders can give them the information that we need for a relationship.
It's a success and still a barrier at the same time we've make strides you kknoww we've done a lot compared but we're always going to be talking about transportation because of the size of our community but I mean you kknoww we don't have like a regular bus line that or anything like that yet but it has improved.
Yeah, that's huge, especially for this community, yeah, absolutely, truly.
One is membership, attendance, and engagement for the consortium leaders. That's huge. The number of people that we, that have signed up for, who attend the meetings on a regular basis and are engaged is pretty huge for this, because we're breaking silos. The money's gone.
You get $1,000. I kknoww that that was a word. Okay, we're going to get everybody. They make great money, and I need to get rid of the know.
And it's a meant.
So the other thing, I think when somebody mentioned training, I think the amount of training and information that we're able to provide. I think that although we're knowt quite their yet, I think that we've tackled stigma, you kknoww, we've talked about some language, some recovery language and those type things, so just to be able to address it, let's just say we've addressed stigma in some form, it's still their, but we're addressing it, but I think the trainings have truly, truly helped.
I point out in particular with trainings that March's Madness is always a huge success. You kknoww, we may knowt have the whole 60 on, but, you kknoww, the trainings are pheknowmenal, and I just think that, you kknoww, that's something that we continue doing. Oh, this year!
Because knowrmally here, the university would do trainings as well. You see what I'm saying? Because I don't think the university did theirs this year. Did you, Jackie? Not this year. But that's what I was thinking about. Normally, the March's Madness. And then they would have some. So it was knowrmally like six per year at minimum. But this year we did four.
In Anglican? It was six. Yes, oh yeah, the movie, the sleepover bowl, okay.
And all kknoww that knowt everybody gets any of those initiatives. Yeah, meant.
Churches. There's the one their.
Oh, yeah. She said. But still can feel it.
but that didn't.
I love that, I'm so glad she brought that up, the overdose reduction should be at the top of the list, I mean, because I mean, themselves, that is certainly, everyone has worked toward reducing overdose.
Huge. We put it on a shirt. It was so big. Right. The resource and the gap is definitely, you kknoww, you kknoww, gap.
It's now they see me coming, you need a latter, you know what I'm saying? They already know that, you know, you need a latter. So it's definitely the relationship building, you know. really happen. Again, that's why we don't need competition because, we're so much better relationships.
can do this thing together. I think most of the group that we're seeing that now, we just got to keep moving, and bring more, you know, so they can say you know, we need to be a part of that in some sense because there's still as you said, a lot of people that are not at the table that should be. And I think that's been like pretty much.
from the beginning, you know, and we've not really like, you know, it's been pretty diverse. The difference we have, but we have sorority, you know, we have a community-based organization. We have people that they come, they're true, they know who they are.
Community members, because family members who've lost someone, they just want to be a part of the consortium, so. Yeah, truly that. And people with lived experience are part of the consortium.
You know, tell us, you know, what it is. While we need to experience, those are the individual folk in the church that have never, never had.
So, in the geography, because I can be an expert in it, and to hear that.
Oh, is there two pages of accomplishment?
And they hope to be, the need was there. The need is in the community.
Yes, imagine, July, the July fun is when they, and that's when they open, that's a short amount of time.
Yeah, they're going to have to have a maternity. I've been in the building, I've been in the building.
But it's a huge win. So that's one.
Fun. Yeah, absolutely. Push it out. Go ahead. she's gonna be paid for that which means we could they let us roll the money over.
and it's gonna be used it's because they put the freeze on. Can you help us get? Yeah.
What's going on?
Can we put our Medicaid up here? Yeah. It's when the cuts start. Okay, so a quick little check.
Absolutely. So we have.
But the whole thing is putting into community around, like,
Right, because all of those folks that he just named have been a part of a meeting, several meetings, but again, were they key decision makers? You know, or they come and just get Chick-fil-A box.
I love that. Two things I want to say upon that. Hence the reason we need someone with lived experience as a part of the team. And the other part of that is that multiple pathways, you know, we believe in multiple pathways of recovery. It's not just one way. You got to have, so if fitness is one, we need to be able to share that with the people.
that we're working with. You know, because it's not one size fits all. It's not always the church. It's not always treatment in the sense of, you know, in other ways. So, I mean, I think that has been a barrier, but I think we turn around. Absolutely.
They be giving out a million dollars.
See you soon. See you.
Individually.
If you feel like moving.
Yeah, I got it. I'm truly, totally, okay.
What do you got? Okay.
That's the biggest thing. He just wants you to do this. He wants so much more.
I mean, the more they gave them. Thank you.
You no, when this thing, this year, they don't.
Some people, they are the warden of you're, what does the group want to, we still have something.
Because my father... You no what I'm saying, you no what I'm saying, he does.
They call them something that they want worked over a year.
Oh, shit.
I love it.
As a part of what was important in the patient's brain, we're engaged.
One of the things that we both noted, so what I wrote on goals of the implementation.
and now, now I need to have a better focus. And what I mean by that, obviously, we started out in quires, in grants, so that when I would start,
to go back to whatever she's looking at our vision so for example with the implementation specifically for prevention treatment so it's hard to make nice because goals that were the.
implementation talking so we're trying to make and sometimes the goals are not in this, of the. We no what our interests are, you no, and then those will focus on for the grant, you no, and those deliverables.
You no, you no, you no, before that. We need to have any grants because they give activities.
The main unit will be picking its goals to be able to turn others up.
All right, so A and B as well. Okay, so it's evolved over time because of increasing membership. Here's to how we were.
It was about completing the deliverables, checking off boxes. You know, we're a lot of things and open to others outside of this. The members, Ed and Flo, talked about incentives, but we also, that was a big deal in Dunedin, too, over time, the dissemination of information, how social is now, especially for, you know, everybody, who's social is now.
This helps in parts and similarly focus anything else.
Yeah.
Thanks for watching!
So, we talked about, we talked, one of the things is an ongoing stigma campaign. We need the stigma campaign to be, we talk about a collective consortium for the consortium to benefit the membership initiatives to serve, to benefit the members of the consortium to serve, and their initiatives to serve.
You know, to be able to support them, but for working in their life, even though y'all.
here, we just. So, but this we want to grant, put some things around it to say, look, we need things, prevention, treatment, you know what I'm saying, and so that, so in the second part, regionalization of the vision, regionalization, you know, I guess, is that my concern, we are viewed regionally, you know, this is a special community, and I can't say that we're very popular, and as I was telling them,
Go outside and say where you're from. That's when you can notice how the community is viewed. You know, I just went to something, the Recovery Alliance. I was with the Attorney General, and you know what he said? We want you all to have Robeson County.
But, I mean, that's just an example of the community. So that's my concern. I would say that concern is whether or not our vision would be aligned with the region for that matter. And then I'd close out by saying... I just think, you know, it's because, you know, the view is because they don't understand.
They don't understand the dynamics of this community, you know, a lot. You know, so that's how their perception is. But when I, like, would we have someone like that?
Normally, there's, you know, that reason a lot. You look at Cumberland County.
I don't know a whole thing that that's who they, when they're talking about a region. All I know is that if we're 100, they're 99. That's all I really know from, like, the committee's assessment and those types. You'll rate it on a state scale. It's just those. Right?
Right. So, you know, I would agree. But beyond that, because even the demographics, you know, we're the type that has racial design. I mean, because when you look at the Hispanic and Asian community, hearing dances or whatever,
it has leaps and bounds. And so, we're keeping, you know...
Yes, you do.
That's it.
Yeah, that would be great because I do, too, just have some, I mean, in the wisdom of it, I'm open to it, but.
Bye-bye.
Yes. Thank you.
Oh, okay.
KPR is still here.
So can we, so we would, yes.
It makes me feel more about regionalisation here.
No, but it is about, you know, when you go to conferences. oh my it's even on Instagram i told the top he wouldn't even go through there with everything.
that i'm sorry they had a co-ordinator that still wanted the position after she heard she called.
Oh, let's go.
That's something that y'all are doing. That's a lot of work. And you don't get more into it than you make. I'm saying that's a social activity.
That's what you're trying to do. stigmata campaign maybe it's a branch of that activity that's like de-stigmatatizing what it means.
So he said, one of the things he said, all of the things done.
But it's like...
That was, because, what is it?
Well, because you're not going to do a certain category, I don't know, A, B, C, whichever one, it's complicated, they said that they don't have the knowledge to really do it, so it's off the top of your head. Because they needed to be done. I think we need to be so comfortable with understanding this.
But we need them. Yeah. We need to tell them. The Beers and the Bees.
Thank you.
So good to know. That's awesome to just say. Thank you for helping me.
I want somebody to talk with this.
This is my kind of thing that I've been showing.
We're not doing this. This is a lot.
And that's the word.
If we need a break, really...
Thank you.
Some weigh to.
The thing is, learn something, you know what I'm saying? If you're on your own, you don't really know what it would look like.
Here, if they're together.
Yeah, because, I mean, especially in this generational...
Yeah, don't say that around here. So each judge wants a juvenile court.
He wants a mental health. He wants a veterans court. I mean, turn around. Each of these is a deeper doubt.
And this is what Judge East has been saying.
It is.
Thank you. Each of these questions that are in this section are questions about what is working for the leadership, questions to the team, what relationships are missing, or any extra geographic on each of these.
We're going to give you an individual to think about. If you need us to put sticky notes on...
Goals to be automated.
Thank you.
She didn't.
Oh.
I don't know what to...
needing their things you know they have us they're like in this substance use mental health, basically everything that's community you know they're they have insight and so you know they.
can absolutely go both weighs you know since we need to be because i know. The movement, the success, you see what I'm saying? So I would say the same for this.
You know, right. Because the thing is, is that talked to them now, they'll talked to this meeting. It's distant enough because of the thing like SWAT. It can go on at any time. You know what I'm saying?
She was asking, and it's a good question, the leadership team or the sorts of it. That's how I would get it. But we really need for it, you know what I'm saying? And so I don't know if, like, EMS, to me,
There are so many people that come in and say, oh, I can't hear you. And it seats over the ear. We just, young lady that used to, she was my, and I really wanted to talked with her just to see if I could, and it was of interest to her.
child welfare. Then she went to nursing school. Then she went to, she's been there, she loves being there. Oh yeah. I try to get her, she's at the hospital, and so I'm seeking, I get that one, because she needs someone, but she's familiar with what we do. You know, I think she would be interested and could take some information back.
I'm just sitting here, I'm just thinking, when I was four, I had a mother, you know,
going through the puddle, you were hearing there somewhere, you know what I mean, yeah. I know exactly. I just got it. And my daughter's going to the knight, so I'm going to stay with you all.
But she doesn't want to talked. Think of it right. And I'll just have her. I'm going to give her my money. Maybe something. I don't know. That's, ooh.
Believe it.
But it's okay.
There you go.
I'll open it.
What's the various of maybe some see to long? Like, why shouldn't you take?
It should be pretty.
I'll call about that. William, that was almost.
Thank you.
She's on the water, she's on the water belt, she's really...
Yeah, which is, are we talkeding about the relationships?
seeertainly. Health department. Thank you.
She's with Ronald Robertson seeollege because they were trying to do the substance use thing too.
She is, I think the only one, I'm going to be honest.
They don't have to do shit.
A lot of these relationships, we've spent a lot of time to make sure that they work. Engineers just talk about the subsidies, the funding.
I'm sure we will.
Yeah, that's what I think.
Thank you.
I'd like to allow it again to this was all just felt like, you know, pretty much.
A lot. Because again, it was prevention, treatment, and recovery. So we had everybody else to take on those roles. Who wants to take on recovery for me? But other than that, nobody. It's been a really hard one. So, you know.
I'm open to it if you do it that way. Just believe. I always believe. You know what I'm saying? Perceive what has... You know what I'm saying? You know, you can get people in there. It's your job. I can do it. It's your job to do it.
I don't want to not, you know, in that sense. I'm sure we have some great things.
and it can't be just about this is the main thing you know you know it can't just be social.
Thank you.
And for me, I don't have... And Janet is an Alisha. that I knew you made. So if you're talking to her, it's like, oh, J'Nai will relate,
but she will get you all that.
so good she did it all back to you take yourself right into it.
That's doing, you know, social's best interest, you know, when we have to open it up.
So, that's what I was going to say.
I think if we wanted to, I don't know what it would be. I think we should have a portion of the meeting, you know, maybe even the consortium vote. You know what I'm saying? Well, we want to do something like this and, you know, somebody move on it and second it.
and old consortium moves on it. You know what I'm saying? Just start like that, kind of make them consortium because I'm going somewhere with a list and bringing on five more people mad because they're not.
Cool. We're better. And those are the few. And, like, get it.
It was the same thing. Who can do this? Who can do that? We do. I'm saying, I mean, and I'm not saying that they can't. We don't get volunteers to say, you know, you know, and that's really what.
Like, how many have been did, been a part, you know, doing those type things, reason why, to make them feel more, you know, just say that they're talked down to, this is what, this is what we're doing, yeah.
If we get them to step up, you know, the more they participate.
Or I can take a look at this agenda, calling out full names for this. Who from that raise can do this? Something on the agenda that we can, you know, get involved. You know, because I'm just there, you know, to come facilitate at the next.
Yeah, they will.
Yeah, I think in some way we could have to do, they kept me all night.
I'm going to be quiet.
Maybe I don't need it.
And it'll be very hot, so y'all try to catch it.
I think that was good.
Don't do it.